# Introduction
Imperia is a tabletop RPG that like many others, provides a set of guidelines to experiencing grand adventures in fictional worlds. This is the the guide to Imperia, it is a fantasy world where everybody has access to magic. People do not have to master their element nor do they have to know of simple magic, a form a wizardry that is not person specific, but they can if they so desire.

This is not the wiki for a world but rather a support for you to make your own world. Things like monsters, spells, characters, story arcs, areas, etc… are all things that will be talked about but home brew is heavily encouraged. Like many others of its kind, in order to predict the outcome of a situation, a dice is used. In this system, 90 % of dice throws will be d20 (a dice with 20 sides), actions have difficulties assigned to them and getting a number equal to or smaller than the difficulty equates to success, bigger means failure. However, this is not a game designed to be competitive, it is purely meant for fun, wich means if you want to change one of the rules discussed below, please do. Now let us go through the basic rules for this tabletop RPG 

# Core rules
* The dice system: as mentioned earlier, this system uses mainly d20, all throws that determine whether an action or not succeeds use a d20 and are assigned a difficulty (either through logic or rules), smaller or equal to the difficulty is a success otherwise it is a failure, the concept of critical success/failure is also used when a 1 or 20 respectively is rolled. The notation used for these throws is (dif x, y/20).
* Ease: ease is a the system used to make sure that two characters do not have the same chance of succeeding the same action (for example a chef and an archer participating in an archery contest shouldn’t have the same chance of succeeding). So players can say their characters have ease 1 (or 2 or 3, etc…) in a certain domain and that means that when the dice is thrown they subtract one from whatever they get. The only exception to this are critical successes and failures, a 1 is alway 1 and 20 is always 20, no matter the ease level. So, let’s imagine that your character is fishing in order to get lunch and he comes from a fishing village so we shall suppose that he has ease 5 and he rolls a 6, which would mean he has a critical success, but he doesn’t. Because if it did it would be too powerful. It is possible to have negative ease(meaning the character is not good at something and in that case you add the “ease” to get the roll). Also if the player gets something above 20 it is an automatic failure and under 1 is an automatic succes, no special things happen in those cases. Finally it is noted as follows (dif x, y-ease/20).
* Wealth: the wealth is system is inspired by the open legends RPG, meaning players have richness levels instead of a sum of gold coins. The gm is (unless specified otherwise) the one who decides when their Richness fluctuates and it is meant to fluctuate a lot. Items and other buyable items are associated with a certain richness level. Players start at richness level 2 and it can technically go up to infinity. It is up to the gm to decide how big they want to make the jump from one richness level to the next. The recommended gap from one level to the next is about “buying 3 days worth of food in advance”. So 0 would be none, 1 would be 1, 2 would be 3, 3 would be 6, etc… 
* Combat: the essentials of it are that it is a turn by turn game, every character plays one after another or every team plays one after another. Whenever a GM says so (or the rules) certain players may get a reaction or throw a dice to know if they get to react. Every action should be a very short action but a player can say they waste a couple turns in order to do something bigger, again it is up to the GM to decide if they get reactions during this time and how many turns this is. All so all living beings and some non-living ones have HP, when it falls to 0 they are k.o for living ones and gone for dead ones and if something is k.o then it can be killed (but if the GM decides that logically this monster or this character should have died before then he/she can kill the poor soul)

# Character creation
This section will overview the entire process of creating a character. A very important step in an Imperia game, after all what you make now will “be” you for however long you decide to make your games last. The first step is an unofficial one as it has no influence when looking at game mechanics and that step is to decide what kind of character you want. Imagining your character can be a great way to later decide the more precise things. You will not be searching for the same things in your character if you are making a woodcutter bent on finding the best wood in the world or if you are a bounty hunter that has been hunting a nobel lady for the past 2 years.

* The first thing you will want to think about after having made your character is what elemental magic they will have. Here you must choose one element (element defined very loosely here) and then that is your magic. The only rule is that you cannot choose a magic deemed overpowered, everybody will have their own definition, but if you can insta kill someone without training, immobilise without restrictions, reincarnate without limits, etc… Then you probably have something overpowered. Although more in depth ideas will be given, a few examples of magics are fire, lightning, lions, seaweed, spice, earth, weather, animation, gravity and snowflakes. As you can see the game’s definition of element is not a common one.


